## Build


## Overview
The build mechanism in `Project: Responder` currently uses a Make file to orchestrate building the infrastructure via Terraform and running ansible. There is an opportunity to move the build process to the linux bastion in the environment, however this has not been done yet.

The Make command can be used according to the instructions in the main README. 

### Details
The Make file is made up of several targets which are written to build a specific environment. To build a specific environment, we utilise terraform workspaces. As shown in the Make file below, we use `terraform workspace select <env>` to switch to the environment we want to work on.

There are 3 main Make targets that are used when interacting with the environments. 
- build-<env>: This will build the environment. The environment should've been destroyed or non-existent before this is run. This will run terraform and then a series of ansible executions.
- destroy-<env>: This will run a `terraform destroy` command that will destroy all of the infrastructure in the environment.
- re-build-<env>: This will rebuild several instances and associated resources. This will use `terraform taint` to mark a resource for termination before running `terraform apply` and then a series of ansible playbook executions to configure the fresh infrastructure.

### Usage of Bastion Server
The build process is shared between the host that ran the build command and the linux bastion server. The terraform actions are executed from the host that ran the build command. The ansible actions are shared between the build host and the linux bastion server. Both the ansible-bastion-prereq and attack playbooks are executed from the host that ran the build command. The windows-bastion and windows playbooks are executed on the linux bastion server. These playbooks are executed on the linux bastion server because we needed a local network connection to the hosts in the environment.

### Limitations
- Inventory files: The inventory files that are generated by terraform and contain credentials and access information are located only on the build machine. This means that the files need to be shared by some other method with users.  
- Rebuilding/errors during build: If there are any errors encountered by Ansible, the entire deployment must be restarted. In the case of errors during the windows ansible module, we can issue the `re-build` command and it will re-build only the windows infrastructure.


```
# APAC
terraform-apac:
	export AWS_PROFILE=$AWS_PROFILE && cd terraform && terraform workspace select apac && terraform apply -auto-approve
ansible-apac: ip=`awk '/^Linux Bastion Public IP: ([0-9]{1,3}.[0-9]{1,3}.[0-9]{1,3}.[0-9]{1,3})/{ print $$5 }' inventory/bastion_server_details_apac`
ansible-apac:
	ansible-playbook -i ansible/ansible-bastion-prereq/inventory/linux_bastion_ansible_inventory_file_apac ansible/ansible-bastion-prereq/install_ansible-prereqs.yml
	ansible-playbook -i ansible/attack/inventory/attacker_ansible_inventory_file_apac ansible/attack/install_attack_tools.yml
	scp -i "terraform/certs/project-responder-ssh" -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -r ansible/windows-bastion/ ubuntu@$(ip):
	ssh -i "terraform/certs/project-responder-ssh" -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no ubuntu@$(ip) ansible-playbook -i windows-bastion/inventory/windows_bastion_ansible_inventory_file_apac windows-bastion/configure_windows_bastion.yml
	scp -i "terraform/certs/project-responder-ssh" -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -r ansible/windows/ ubuntu@$(ip):
	ssh -i "terraform/certs/project-responder-ssh" -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no ubuntu@$(ip) ansible-playbook -i windows/inventory/windows_ansible_inventory_file_apac windows/windows_build_env.yml
taint-apac:
	export AWS_PROFILE=$AWS_PROFILE && cd terraform && terraform workspace select apac && terraform taint module.public.aws_instance.web_server && terraform taint module.corp.aws_instance.DC && terraform taint module.corp.aws_instance.client_1 && terraform taint module.corp.aws_instance.client_2 && terraform taint module.super_secret.aws_instance.file_server && terraform taint module.super_secret.aws_instance.sql_server
build-apac: terraform-apac ansible-apac
destroy-apac: 
	export AWS_PROFILE=$AWS_PROFILE && cd terraform && terraform workspace select apac && terraform destroy -auto-approve
re-build-apac: taint-apac terraform-apac ansible-apac
```